# Attendance at guru.gndec.ac.in

The Attendance activity is designed for teachers to be able to take
attendance during class, and for students to be able to view their own
attendance record.

A teacher can mark the attendance status of a student as "Present",
"Absent", "Late", or "Excused".  These status descriptions are configurable,
and more can be added.  The teacher adds Attendance as an activity of a
course, and then sets up the sessions for which attendance is to be tracked.

The Attendance activity can generate reports for either the entire class or
for individual students.  Students may also see their own attendance record
if the activity is not hidden.

The optional Attendance block allows teachers quick access to the Attendance
functionality, and allows students quick access to a summary report for
their own attendance.

## Adding an Attendance activity

An Attendance activity can be added to a course in the same way as any other
activity:

    Turn editing on
    Click 'Add an activity or resource'
    Select Attendance

Note that you may now add as many Attendance instances as you like, and that
each instance may have multiple sections.  Be sure to give the instance a
name that indicates what it will be used for; for example, "Lecture
Attendance".  If you will be using groups in your course, set the Group mode
accordingly, because even if groups exist in the course, you will not be
able to use them within the Attendance activity if you select No groups.

Once you have added an attendance instance, you are ready to start taking
attendance during classes.

## Setting Attendance categories and grading options

Now it is time to set your attendance options.  Select your attendance
activity and you will see a bar of tabs, the last of which is "Settings."
Select "Status set" and you are presented with acronyms, attendance status
descriptions, and grade (points) to assign.  By default, the status
descriptions are "Present", "Absent", "Late", and "Excused".

You may prefer to change the descriptions (for example, by changing "Late"
to "Tardy"), change the way points are counted, or add new status
descriptions.  To do the latter, fill in the fifth line and click the Add
button.  Important: when you hit the Add button, any changes made to
existing options that were made after the last time the Update button was
used will be lost.  Likewise, when you hit the Update button, any changes
made to the Add after the last time the Add button was used will be lost.

Finally, when you are done changing items on this page, be sure to click the
Update button to register the changes.

## Adding sessions

Next, it is time to add sessions.  To add class sections, click the Add
session tab (second from left) at the top of the Attendance page. 
Alternatively, you can click the Add button from the Attendance block (if
you've installed it) to directly navigate to the page for adding sessions. 
If you chose "No groups", or have not defined groups, then the Session type
will be forced to "Common." If you have defined groups and have chosen to
use them in your course's Attendance activity, then you will have the option
to create sessions for a group or all students.

You have two options for adding sessions: adding a single session or adding
multiple sessions.  The single session is self-explanatory as well as
time-consuming to use when you have many class sessions, so we will go
straight to the more useful option.

Check the Create multiple sessions button.  Select the date and time for the
first session you wish to add, followed by the duration of the session. 
Then, enter the date for the last session you wish to add.  Since most
classes do not meet seven days a week, select the checkboxes for days the
class meets.  The final option, frequency, may look confusing but it is
actually straightforward: if your class meets every week, as is typical,
then you want a frequency of 1 week, which is the default.  If your class
meets every other week, then select a frequency of 2 weeks, and so on.  If
you wish, you may type a description for the sessions you are creating.  If
you leave the description field blank, it will default to "Regular class
session".  Finally, click the Add multiple sessions button to create your
sessions.  You will see a message confirming this.

## Editing sessions

Click on the Attendance tab.  Here, you will see the list of all attendance
sessions you have added.  You can delete an individual session by clicking
the X on the session rectangle's right-hand side.  Alternatively, you can
check the checkboxes of each session you wish to delete, and then choose
"Delete" from the drop-down menu at the bottom right-hand corner of the page
to delete all the selected sessions.

You can edit a session — for example, to change its date or description — by
clicking the hand icon on the session rectangle's right-hand side.

## Taking attendance

Finally, we get to using the activity for its intended purpose.  You can
take attendance for a session by clicking on the green radio button on the
session rectangle's right-hand side.  Those sessions for which attendance
has already been taken, do not have the green button.  However, the
description is a link that takes you to a screen for modifying the
attendance record for that session.

Note that when taking attendance, the column headings for attendance status
are links.  If you click one of these column headings, all students will
have their status changed to the status you selected.  Thus, if everyone is
present, you can merely click the P column header to change everyone's
status to "Present".  If only one person is absent, you could first click P
to set everyone's status to "Present", and then set the absent student's
status to "Absent".

Enter remarks as appropriate — for example, the reason for an absence if
known, or the number of minutes a student was late — and click the OK button
to record the information.
